so we always try to keep the utmost care of the
animals in mind, we're obviously in it to make
a bit of money but care for animals always helps, we want to make things as simple and as easy
as possible for ourselves as well as providing a
quality product for our consumers, the size we're
at we generally wholesale but we try and pick
who we wholesale to and people who meet our own
philosophies and basically get the best quality
that we can on the land and resources we're given
so the lambs are usually anywhere from five
to six/seven months old when they hit our target
weight we usually try to aim for about 110
pounds, for us that's just basically the weight
the market can handle and I mean I love putting
weight on lambs once they get past 50 or 60 pounds
it's just purely eating right they just get
in there and go so the heavier the better but
yeah about seven months so probably top, so it's about 50 or 60% grass depending on who you talk to
to but once the end was cleaned it's about
half the weight so be about 60/65 pounds
us generally we also grow all the crops
to feed our animals so spring would start with
a lambing group usually that we've bred in the
fall it's about five months wait and so we'd
have a lamb group probably february-march or so
and hopefully if we planned it right they'll be
done by the time we get to april may and we can
start a bit of field work getting some crops in
the ground getting everything worked up and
then we start harvesting hay crop pretty soon
that's an annual crop so it's just usually ready
year-round perennials so yeah we'll start
harvesting hay mid-summer we'll start lambing
again a little bit, we try and lamb every
other month if we can, so usually small enough
groups so we can handle it on the fly and we
keep working on the land and get crops in, we start doing the small grains like wheat and barley
maybe mid july or so into august and then the end
of august we start getting into second cut hay
hopefully at that point maybe
even third cut hay at that point
and get into some soybeans starting early
fall and then corn is usually ready about
November/December and the other side we try
to lamb pretty much throughout that
every other month every month if we can so
lambing we usually take a group of about 100
animals, we get them all bred at the same time
lambing would be when they actually give birth
and we put them through our system and start
going from there, so sheep being what we call
ruminants in that they have a large essentially
vat of a stomach that helps them digest all kinds
of forages all kinds of greenery so they're
usually fed primarily a forage based diet so
your hay your basically the full plant while it's
still green, it makes some really good grazers
so yeah we go with probably about 60 to 70 percent
of that in their ration we also feed them a fair
bit of corn a fair bit of a protein supplement for
us we use dried distillers grains that's the main
source and then whatever other minerals we feel
they're deficient in we kind of wrap that all up
into one mixed blend and feed it to them as you go
as you can see here our lambs get a bit more corn
but it's generally all fed as one single
ration and we feed daily and make sure we
keep an eye on everybody, antibiotics usually
in the lambs especially at a very young age
they're prone to gut parasites which can
be a little bit nasty some days so we
in our starter creep feed so the feed that the
lambs get while they're still on their mums
there's a bit of a antibiotic in
there just to try and help with that
and then again into our lambs it's a little bit
milder again but that does help with that and i
notice when it's missing get a lot bigger outbreak
of those diseases so there is withdrawal time too
they have to come off the feed soon enough before
shipped so that we make sure that none of that
actually makes it into the meat into the packing
plants so we follow all those guidelines as well
yeah, my name's Kevin Lamb I'm a sheep farmer
and this is my story so, go eat some lamb